so i'm really having this 14-inch laptop
space because there are some really good
products on the market right now the
macbook pro 14 if you want something
that's catered towards creators and
designers there's the blade 14 the g14
both amazing gaming laptops there's also
the x14 by alienware but we don't touch
that one it's no bueno compared to these
two if we're talking about design and
build quality personally i think the
blade 14 is built better like this is
entirely aluminum even on the bottom it
just feels super solid compared to the
g14 you have plastic bits on the bottom
which takes away from the appeal don't
get me wrong it still feels very premium
but there's just this allure to the
blade 14 that the g14 doesn't have they
both weigh about the same slightly
heavier with the blade but the g14 is a
bit thicker and because it's using that
16 by 10 aspect ratio the laptop itself
is deeper now to me the little things
are important and one thing you'll
notice if you have both laptops is that
the hinge on the blade 14 is way tighter
like it just feels
nice and strong you open up the display
there's very little wobble to it whereas
the g14 tends to wobble a bit more it's
not bad it's not a major concern but
there's a difference between these two
laptops the other thing is when you
close it and again this is a little
thing not a big deal to most but when
you close the g14
this is what it sounds like when you
close the blade 14
that's what it sounds like it really
reminds me of how you close a macbook
pro and the sound of it is less than
most other laptops again stupid because
you can simply just close your laptop
very slowly and never hear it but some
of you out there are pretty aggressive
when you close the displays and the
blade 14 does sound quieter ports are
almost identical they both have two
usb-a ports two usb type-c ports hdmi
2.1 ports you have the audio jack the
only difference is that the g14 comes
with a micro sd card slot if you want to
insert external storage the other thing
i prefer with the blade is that the
ports are at the back
side of the laptop
compared to the front side of the laptop
like they have on the g14 their vents
happen to be at the back so
cables are going to be closer to you
rather than further away ideally in the
perfect world i'd love to have all the
ports on the back but it's obviously not
capable with this style of design but
the one area that the g14 starts to win
out on is ergonomics for one it uses the
ergo hinge so airflow is better two it
has a better keyboard like typing on
this guy
ah asus is doing such a great job with
their keyboards they just feel so
comfortable to type on big keycaps the
blade 14 don't get me wrong it's it's a
good typing experience it's just not my
favorite the one thing that the blade 14
does better though is rgb the perky rgb
on this guy way better than the rgb on
the g14 it's just hard to see on the
white model and because the font they're
using it just doesn't light up as bright
even on the darker version also if you
do decide to go on the white model i
still suggest you go black there's a
green tint on the keys and it's not the
same color or same paint job as the deck
of the keyboard even though both laptops
have forward-facing speakers and i do
appreciate
the laser cut design they're now using
on the blade they just sound better on
the g14 they get louder they have more
bass there's more depth to the sound
even with thx enabled and spatial audio
and all that stuff on the blade the
sound quality is just very flat like it
just doesn't sound that great they both
have webcams the blade got updated to
1080p they both support windows hello
720p on the g14 but quite frankly they
both still look pretty awful so here's
another example of the hinge if i tilt
these displays back
the razer blade is going to stay whereas
the g14 won't because the hinge on it is
not nearly as strong as the blade again
not a big deal but i still want to point
it out the displays themselves are both
qhd or qhd plus with the g14 they both
have identical color gamut but the g14
does get brighter so if you're working
outdoors a lot you're probably going to
prefer the g14 display a bit more now
performance is what you guys really came
here for because they're kind of similar
in some ways but different when it comes
to the gpu you buy the g14 you're
getting the rx 6800s you're buying the
blade 14 you can top it up to a 3080 ti
my model here only has a 3070 ti so
gpuis it's technically not fair but
you'll see that this 3070 ti performs
very well compared to the 6800 s now cp
performance is interesting because this
is using the 6900 hx and you'd expect
that to run faster since it's
technically an unlocked cpu which can
have more power pushed to it compared to
the hs that's inside of the g14 but with
multi-core speeds the g14 was faster and
same holds true with single core clock
speeds if you are doing anything that
remotely involves creative work it
really comes down to the specific
application you're using with photoshop
and
after effects this 6800 s outperformed
3070 ti i'd imagine the 3080ti would
push back
if you're talking about adobe premiere
pro
then the blade 14 performed better than
the g14 i also did a davinci resolve
test because i personally used davinci
resolve i stopped using premiere a long
time ago and the blade of 14 slightly
outperforms the g14 but the difference
is negligible now because asus pushes
their cpus a little bit hotter for
longer the mozilla firefox compile test
was seven minutes faster on the g14
compared to the blade 14. so if you're a
developer because of that 16 by 10
display and the faster clock speeds this
will give you better compile times but
if you're using blender don't even look
don't even look at a laptop with an amd
gpu so the tgp of both gaming laptops
are almost identical the 6800s runs up
to 105 watts compared to 100 watts with
the rtx 3070 ti power bricks are
pretty much identical in size the blades
power brick is a little bit taller
whereas the asus version is a tiny bit
wider this is a 240 watt power brick
compared to 230 watts now if you're
gaming at 1920 by 1200 or 1920 by 1080
on the blade the 6800 s does beat out
the 3070 ti i don't think it'd be out
the 3080 ti but it does beat out the
3070 ti due to the faster single core
clock speeds and of course it can push
those cpu speeds higher for longer
because that's just the way this thing
is tuned but as soon as you switch it to
qhd okay which i imagine most of you
will be gaming at qhd since these are
qhd displays the 3070 ti outperforms the
6800 s so thermals are where things get
very interesting the g14 tends to run a
bit hotter and with that you do get
better performance whereas the blade 14
is more conservative it doesn't like
being in the 90s for too long it'll drop
down into the 80s and with that you get
a cooler experience there's some
advantages and disadvantages to this the
g14 will always be the better performer
in terms of the cpu like this is an hs
processor beating out an hx processor
but longevity wise i feel like the blade
14 has the advantage because it's taking
the safe approach you also get way
quieter fans with the blade 14. i know
it doesn't look like it's way quieter in
this graph but trust me every decibel
makes a difference on your ears and the
blade 14 does a better job with it now
both laptops have a muck switch but it
does require a restart if you're
switching between the integrated and
dedicated gpu vapor chamber coolers
bigger on the blade but i do appreciate
the little details that asus is doing
with the design
swappable nvme ssds but the read and
write speeds are way better on the blade
this is not a gen 4 drive and if it is
it's a very slow one ram soldered onto
the motherboard the most you can get
with the blade is 16 gigabytes the g14
either has 8 or 16 soldered on depending
on the model you buy but you do get one
slot that is upgradable so my model has
32. battery life way better on the g14
it's just a bigger battery 76 watt hours
compared to 61
under 10 hours compared to under six so
here's the thing i really love the blade
14. i personally think it has a better
design build quality and look
but the thing that's giving me a tough
time recommending it right now is the
price difference between both of these
laptops like this is a 2600
laptop with a 3070 ti compared to the
g14 that has the 6800s the fastest gpu
they offer for it that costs 18.99 if it
was to come with 16 gigabytes of ram
that's an 800
difference i don't think the blade 14
with its soldered on memory and worse
battery life is worth 800 more if i had
to choose between these two and i was
someone who traveled a lot but also
loved to game and i wanted really good
battery life it's a no-brainer it's the
g14
if things were more equal in price then
i could suggest the blade 14 for certain
situations maybe if all you were doing
is gaming maybe if you were gaming and
doing a bit of 3d work then the nvidia
cards make a lot more sense and with
that you get better fan noise but as of
right now because the price difference
it's a no-brainer the g14 makes a lot
more sense today i hope that answered
all of your questions if you have any
more let me know in the comment section
down below like the video if you liked
it subscribe if you haven't already and
i'll see you guys in the next one
[Music]
