all right guys hardest part of the video
we're getting it right out right out of
the gate i need to say the name of this
laptop correctly this sponsored by
lenovo of course
is the lenovo slim 7i pro x not the yoga
it is in europe but not here
the charger that we get is a hundred
watts over usb type-c really like to see
it i thought at first when i saw that it
was yellow it was lenovo's little
proprietary charger which also in
fairness is pretty good all right what
else do we have in here
it says yoga rate on it
the good news is it's a good feeling
laptop having a look at the i o here you
get two thunderbolt 4 ports and you
might want to use those for display as
well because the hdmi we have right here
is only 2.0 not 2.1 so if you're hooking
up to 4k display and just use
thunderbolts over on the other side we
have a full size usb type a headphone
microphone combo and oh a little webcam
disabled i'd like to see that overall
though this is um a very laptop looking
laptop what i am impressed with though
is the overall chassis rigid you can see
some like
macro flexing here but that's the sort
of thing that like when the whole deck
as one piece flexes you don't
necessarily get in the keys like yeah if
you look at the keys
there's no deflection it's just if i'm
like really pushing it
okay the keyboard is great we also have
excellent key stabilization so you can
see here like if i push on the side of
the key the whole key goes down instead
of just like the corner going down
that's the sort of thing that allows you
to have just a really fast typing
experience not have to kind of make sure
that you're hitting the keys as opposed
to just hitting the keys now as well as
having a fantastic keyboard it's also
not the laptop we're supposed to be
looking at make sense uh this one's the
gray this one right here is the teal
also this one does not say yoga right
here just says lenovo what i find
interesting though is that the displays
are not the same on paper they're the
same but in
real life they obviously are not now
they both are 120 hertz panel they also
have a color calibrated from the factory
i think it's what delta e of less than
one that is mangled good so you can
definitely use this for your lightroom
or video editing or what you have you
just what i don't get is that the us
model is glossy and the european appears
to be matte the glossy one
clearly has just nicer more vibrant
colors like the blacks look darker the
colors just look a little bit more
colorful but at the same time i can see
my face in it if i want to whereas the
mac display does an exceptional job of
not showing me all the crap that's
around me but at the same time you know
it's just a little bit more washed up
especially with their great big light
that's above my head you don't think any
of them are touch well
i think you're wrong
wait what this one not touch for
whatever reason
the one with the matte display does not
have touch and the one with the glossy
screen does have touch so before i was
kind of leaning towards the matte
display because you know that's nice
touch is way better i absolutely love
touching a laptop especially one that's
disliked how much does this thing weigh
starts at 3.2 pounds damn that's really
good
now 3.2 pounds might not sound like the
lightest thing ever there's much lighter
laptops out there the reason that's
impressive is because of the specs of
this thing oh damn that is really
impressive we have an intel i7 12700h
not even the p they just give you the
full fat 14 core 20 thread monster damn
this thing has 32 gigabytes of ram at
1600 megahertz ddr5 okay i'm
legitimately impressed right now i
didn't look at this before i assumed it
was like a p series we also have one
terabyte ssd intel wi-fi 6e iris xc
graphics of course
but you'll never use those because it
also has an rtx 3050. okay this one's a
bit more reasonable
16 gigabytes of ram
1650 but it also still gets the 12700h
for that massive cpu compute also just
want to mention that these are both on
the intel evo platform so that basically
just means that it gets what more than
nine hours of battery life starts from
sleep really fast boots up super fast
one other kind of awkward thing is that
it expressly states that we have to show
you the intel evo badge cover up the
other badging there we go intel evo we
now get to do our startup test it should
be real fast because it's on the evil
platform
and it is there we go we're in all right
now i'm kind of very legitimately
concerned about having a processor
that's that powerful in a chassis that
is this small
it's going to thermal throttle it's
already thermal throttling uh cpu
package right now it's at 86 degrees
here we go we're starting our cinebench
run this right here isn't like a single
one and done run to get a high score
this is just a it's running for 10
minutes sort of thing so we can find out
what we're dealing with here
cpu is at 94 95 degrees now if we open
up
lenovo's little vantage software here
power and performance actually i'm just
going to chuck it right into extreme
performance mode there we go it looks
like that we're at 95 degrees celsius on
the cpu that's like perfectly fine what
you have to realize is that the on
modern cpus they don't care if they're
running at 100 degrees the whole time if
you want in the bios you can set it to
go to 115 and it still will be perfectly
fine and our cpu
she's struggling now you might see that
this is
you know for one it's pretty loud at the
moment and also like it isn't going all
that fast it seems like we're doing all
core 2.4 gigahertz which sounds kind of
slow
but we just need to put that into
context for a second here this was able
to manage a bit over 11 000 points in
cinebench r23 for comparison um an i9
9900
that was a 5 gigahertz 8 core processor
from just a couple generations ago on a
desktop that's comparable to like a
ryzen 5 5600 x it's a very competent
little machine now let's try and just
get a proper score we'll turn off you
know obs here stop recording we'll give
it a second to cool down maybe even i'll
pop prop it up i think it'll love that
damn
all right turns out you know screen
recording at the same time uses up some
resources this thing was able to do 13
576 in cinebench that is freaking great
for
like look at this thing it's so slim how
did they do that
i am genuinely impressed with this
laptop now i don't want to mention this
tape definitely helped us out that
probably i don't know got us five maybe
even 10 more watts on the processor oh
we haven't even talked about the
trackpad the trackpad is great it's big
it's glass topped it's nice to use it's
a good trackpad all right thank you eu
version of the laptop you've served us
well but you're not as fast as our north
american one
the number one game in the world
according to me
malham
medium settings large 1080p we're
looking at what 30 fps okay we can do
better than that i think extreme
performance there we go yep that got us
20 fps fantastic this is a fantastic
screen for playing games on like 3k
excellent also having the 120 hertz even
though we're only getting 60 fps in this
game makes everything so much more
responsive
even has g-sync it's basically a gaming
laptop but you don't have to like have
it be so heavy it is getting a little
bit hot up here well we'll play this
until i die oh i'm so dead
oh do you see that dodge roll i died all
right well that's enough valheim for
this evening
that was not a laptop issue that was
purely a skill issue uh what else oh
crabrif grab rave almost open it up too
fast let's have a gander at that
how many this is it 400
well the speakers are fine we want to
just be clear here it's not incredible
compared to some of the top-end laptops
but if you're comparing it to a laptop
from a couple years ago it's the same as
the best ones that existed then it's
this large you can only make your
speakers so good this is our webcam
right here i feel like if you took the
time to set up the lighting this camera
could be quite good i'm really blown out
kind of right in
my forehead and stuff it's kind of weird
yeah it's a very challenging scene i
want to be clear and once i turn it into
the pure camera mode it seems to figure
it out like this is really good i'll
just take photo another one i'll smile
for this one it exposed perfectly for my
face for the photo okay we're gonna go
for a little tour here mr laptop okay
this is still a very challenging scene
but it's doing slightly better
but we have so many lights and stuff
okay
i'm sorry andy one second
it's it's still
not quite exposing
correctly the webcam i would say if you
put in the work it's going to be really
good if you have kind of a weird scene
like we have here it's gonna struggle
that said for a zoom call like it's more
than good enough when there's hello
facial recognition it has it it's my
favorite way to get into a computer it
just works great you open it up and then
you get logged in love it now what we
get to do is take it apart
all right let's see how repairable she
is
okay okay well in here we get a 70 watt
hour battery they say it'll get you 13
hours of battery life and more like 9
under load one thing i want to just have
a chat about for a second is windows
modern standby i'm gonna bring it up in
every single short circuit from now on
until it's fixed uh lenovo go to
microsoft and just kick them in the nuts
it's one of the worst things they've
done in years and so every single laptop
including this one will do just this
really annoying thing where for the most
part it's fine and the battery lasts and
it's great then sometimes you put it in
your backpack and it wakes up and then
you take it out and it's burning hot and
your battery's dead and everyone's very
sad it's been happening for like two
years at this point just go to microsoft
and get very mad at them modern standby
it's awful
fortunately though this laptop has fast
charging so they say they'll be able to
get four hours of battery life off of
half an hour of charging the
upgradeability is about what you expect
for a laptop in this class and it looks
like you cannot upgrade the ram so make
sure you get how much you want from the
factory you can swap your wi-fi card
right there ssd is removable the battery
also comes out and it looks like
underneath that even the track pad can
be removed which is very nice i am very
surprised that this cooler is able to do
45 watts of cooling though like we saw
it do that it clearly can the thin pitch
on these fans they are just
super duper small fins they did a really
good job at even though they were kind
of on the loud side not being annoying
that's like very key okay jake we need
to figure out the price point of this
laptop having a look in here it's pretty
clear that the whole chassis was cnc
machined like we can look in here that's
why it's so rigid that's why it feels
amazing given the specs
and the screen and the chassis this
thing has to be very expensive you're
guessing 1400 this thing feels like 22 i
think we'll have the actual price right
here
if it's lower than 2 000 can we have
balloons
it's a good laptop i'm surprised how
much power they were able to cram into
something that's this small yeah if
you're like a content creator video
editor like gamer it's a pretty
fantastic little machine i can't like
you know thumbs up thumbs down it
because we don't know the price and it's
sponsored take from that what you wish
so huge thanks to lenovo for sponsoring
this video if you guys want you can just
like start sending us laptops you don't
need to sponsor all of them this is just
a good laptop anyway
but yeah if you guys want to purchase it
links will be down below and just have a
fantastic day hit like get subscribed
so long
