all right tech family today we're going
to find the best premium powerful
14-inch laptop that you can buy
14-inch laptops are my personal favorite
form factor they are the laptops that
are large enough to have powerful
components inside and a display big
enough to get real work done yet they're
still portable
let me introduce you to the contenders
first the asus g14 for 2022 specs on
screen
next i've got the new yoga slim7 pro x
the intel model there's also an amd
model available by the way and of course
i've got the macbook pro 14 and the
razer blade 14 for 2022 which my good
friends at b h sent me for review
as per usual this video isn't sponsored
and i'm not getting paid by any of these
manufacturers
you might notice one premium 14 inch
laptop is missing dell's alienware x14
it just wasn't out in time when i
started testing these machines i'm not
going to go into every minute detail of
these laptops it would be way too big a
video plus other reviewers have already
done that instead i'm just going to talk
about what it's like to own and use each
of these devices focusing on the things
that i believe matter the most when
choosing between them
and by the way i've used these a lot
i've edited videos for this channel on
them i've played games on them i've done
work on them you get the picture when it
comes to the displays all these laptops
have very good ones they are all high
resolution high refresh rate panels if i
had to rate them the macbook pro 14 has
the best all-round display and the most
useful its bright high refresh rate mini
led panel allowed me to see more
information on screen than any other
laptop you can see that demonstrated in
my test of how many rows of excel i can
see on screen without needing to squint
also if you're like me and are worried
about the notch prior to owning a
macbook don't be
as i said in my long term review of this
laptop you honestly just don't see it
after a while i'll link that video down
below by the way next it's a tie between
the asus g14 and the slim7x pro for
different reasons the g14 is a joy to
look at it is super bright with
excellent color accuracy the fact that
it's matte non-reflective makes it look
even brighter than it is
that being said i couldn't comfortably
see nearly as much content as i could on
the slim 7 pro x's larger 14.5 inch
display the slim7 pro x has excellent
contrast and a fast refresh rate panel
however it doesn't quite have the color
accuracy of the other displays nor does
it have the pop of an oled or mini led
panel
last spot goes to the race at blade 14
its display is the dimmest of the bunch
i was regularly trying to hit the
brightness up key in the hopes of
getting more brightness out of it it's
also the only one with a 16 by 9 aspect
ratio so you see less information going
down the screen
in my excel test i did see a couple more
rows of excel than on the g14 which is a
bit of a rounding error and is mainly
due to the mapping of windows scaling
settings to the pixel density of each
display i found with the g14 in
particular i was actually jumping
between the scaling shown on screen and
one which made everything a bit smaller
and allowed me to see more information
than the razer blade
i do feel razer missed the opportunity
to put a larger 16 by 10 aspect ratio
screen in this laptop just look at all
the wasted space where the bezel is
below the screen the keyboard is an
outright win for the g14 it is the most
comfortable laptop keyboard i've ever
used next up is a type between the
macbook pro 14 and the slim 7 pro x
both of these have very comfortable
keyboards but you can still feel that
they are a little low travel which is
not something you notice on the g14
dead last is the razer blade 14. i and
other reviewers have been saying this
for years
this keyboard feels uncomfortably low
travel you really notice your fingers
hitting the bottom if you are okay with
apple's panned low travel butterfly
keyboards you will probably be okay with
this
but for most people the blades keyboard
sucks it's a pity as razer makes some
excellent mechanical keyboards the
trackpad surprising no one is a win for
the macbook pro 14. it's the most
accurate the asus g14 is second it also
has a very large and accurate trackpad
the only reason it doesn't tie with the
macbook pro 14 is because when you click
it in the bottom left and right corners
the trackpad physically moves and your
click becomes less accurate that's
because all these windows laptops have
mechanical track pads which move when
you click them the mac is haptic and
doesn't move it just feels like it's
moving tying for third place for
different reasons is the pro x and the
blade 14. the pro x just doesn't feel
quite as accurate as that of the g14 and
the macbook pro 14. the razer on the
other hand although accurate is just
uncomfortable to click to register a
click you have to press with too much
force when it comes to the build quality
the razer blade 14 and macbook pro 14
are just in a league of their own the
blade 14 in particular looks amazing
compared to any other laptop i would
have given it the outright win but the
blade 14 is a lot less durable the black
finish chips easily my blade 15 chipped
and so did jared's blade 14. the macbook
pro 14 on the other hand is incredibly
durable i've smashed mine around and it
looks brand new the g14 gets second
place the white design laptop looks
really cool even though it's a bit
chunky the slim7 pro x is last i have
both the blue and silver color and they
look nice enough but they just look like
a standard laptop i won't read out every
specific port these laptops have i'll
just show the manufacturer's pages while
i talk through the differences they all
have good port selections with different
pros and cons the macbook pro 14 and the
pro x with intel both have fast
thunderbolt 4 ports none of the amd
laptops do unfortunately
both the blade 14 and macbook pro 14
have charging capable ports on either
side of the laptop which is convenient
as you won't have to run a power cable
around the back if your outlet is on the
other side of the charging port the g14
on the other hand has all its ports
placed very forward on the laptop which
is annoying as it gets in the way
for content creators the macbook pro 14
and g14 are the only ones with sd card
readers the macbook pro has a full sized
one and the g14 micro the macbook pro's
downside though is that it has no legacy
usb a ports all the windows laptops do
so you'll need a dongle for that on the
mac portability the macbook pro 14 and
the pro x are the lightest of the bunch
and the most comfortable size and weight
wise to have on your lap
that being said i didn't find the g14 or
blade that bad they are all under about
four pounds plus because they can all be
charged with small lightweight usbc
charges i didn't penalize the blade or
g14 for coming with beefier charging
bricks on the audio front the macbook
pro 14 was just so much better than
these other laptops it really is a shame
that windows laptop makers just can't
get this together
on the asus g14 and blade in particular
i regularly wanted more sound especially
when gaming when the fans are going
really loud
[Laughter]
so
[Music]
[Music]
let's talk performance please keep in
mind my macbook pro 14 has the lowest
end m1 chip in it of the three m1 pro
chips available we did throw in the more
powerful m1 pro 10 core cpu model from
another reviewer for comparison
i do not recommend getting the m1 max
chip in the 14 inch macbook pro so i
haven't included its scores here even
though i've owned one i've explained why
in my long term review of that laptop
which i'll link below in geekbench which
tests a variety of common performance
tasks the macbook pro took the lead
followed closely by strong performance
from the slim 7 pro x no surprises as
that laptop has a powerful h-series
intel 12-gen processor performance is
significantly lower for the blade 14 and
asus g14 as well as the lowest end
macbook pro m1 although its single core
performance is still exceptional by the
way if you see multiple performance bars
mentioned it's because the windows
laptops all have multiple performance
modes that you can run the laptop in i
tried the default mode plus several of
the performance modes that i felt best
suited the task at hand
let's take a look at cinebench r23 which
maxes out the cpu the blade 14 and asus
g14 just crushes it these are some
absolutely incredible performance scores
the slim 7 pro x and the macbook pro 14
with the 10 core cpu aren't next and are
also doing very well last place is the
m1 pro 8 core cpu
now looking at a 10 minute torture test
running the cpu maxed out you can see
that the mac maintains its performance
unfortunately i wasn't able to test this
on the 10 core version but it wouldn't
surprise me if it was the same result
the amd laptops do drop a little in this
test but the x pro with intel can't
maintain its performance likely because
the hot intel cpu can't be called
on that note let's take a look at cpu
temperatures during the torture test no
surprise as the macbook pro did well but
the one i'd really like to highlight is
the razer blade 14's 84 degrees on the
default balance mode this is fantastic
given how well the laptop performed on
that mode looking at power draw the
macbook called by far the least amount
of power for the performance it gave i
also really liked how little power the
blade put in in its balance mode for the
performance it offered which during this
test was around the same as the intel x
pro yet you can see that the intel
laptop required more power to do that
surprisingly the blade performed a tad
better on that default balance mode than
the g14 on its default mode and required
less power to do it
on the intel laptop you can see the big
drop in performance draw even on the
extreme performance mode we don't see
that same level of drop on the amd
gaming laptops on their performance
modes this is likely because the cooling
solution in those laptops is far more
robust than on the pro x onto gpu
performance the g14 and the blade 14
both come with a mux switch this enables
you to get more performance out of the
dedicated graphics by not sending the
signal via the integrated graphics it
goes directly to the display
in this mode the dedicated graphics are
always running and will chew a lot more
battery i tested these laptops with both
settings default mode with the
integrated graphics and then on their
highest performance mode running
directly from the dedicated graphics the
blade 14 just crushed it my g14 with the
6700 is about 16 slower than the blade
14 with a 30 70 ti in time spy that is
and 13 slower in fire strike
the x pro with its 30 50 you can see
really isn't going to come close to
these gaming laptops however it did
perform better than my 3050 ti in my
acer swift x which for a 30 50 is great
in the puget premiere pro benchmark for
video editing you can see the macbook
annihilates the competition and as i
said this is the lowest end m1 pro cpu
the x-pro here does very well as some
applications like premiere pro perform
substantially better often intel cpu
when it comes to heat you feel when the
laptop is under full load the one that
sticks out like a sore thumb is the slim
7 pro x with the intel chip it feels
very hot you absolutely would not want
to be doing any performance tasks with
this on your lap even using it on a desk
it feels noticeably very warm switching
to fan noise you hear when the laptop is
doing high performance tasks the macbook
pro 14 is substantially quieter than the
other laptops the blade and g14 are
pretty decent in their default
performance modes but are ludicrously
loud in their highest performance modes
honestly folks i really would think
twice about running these in their high
performance modes
i don't think the marginal performance
benefit outweighs the cons of a massive
increase in fan noise unfortunately the
slim 7 pro x with intel is pretty loud
in any mode you run it in for
lightweight tasks such as browsing the
web and doing office work the macbook
pro 14 was dead silent and remained
totally cool to the touch the g14 was
the next best it was pretty quiet but at
times in a quiet room you could hear the
fan spin up a little it was a bit warm
to the touch too by the way the blade 14
was somewhat similar i found the fan
span up a little more frequently than
the g14 but given the hardware inside i
was pleasantly surprised it was also
noticeably warm to the touch too but not
too uncomfortable the slim7 pro x on the
other hand was unfortunately not good
here at all for lightweight use i
regularly heard distracting fan noise
and it was noticeably warm to the touch
i'm personally sensitive to fan noise
and i found i used the pro x the least
of any of these laptops due to this
issue if i was to sum up performance
heat and fan noise the macbook pro
offered the most performance for minimal
heat and fan noise and excellent
performance in video editing tasks the
blade 14 though was the all-round high
performance winner i was very pleasantly
surprised how well it did the asus g14
performed well but didn't reach the
heights of the blade both those gaming
laptops by the way had a fair amount of
fan noise on balance mode and got a bit
warm to the touch but nothing too brutal
the slim 7 pro x with intel although it
performed well i found the fan noise and
heat not something i personally want to
deal with
battery life is an outright disaster for
the pc laptops i set all to their best
possible battery modes for the razer and
g14 that included ensuring that the
graphics were running off their lower
powered integrated gpus i then turned
all displays three notches down in
brightness and ran a netflix movie on
repeat over wi-fi for four hours
straight i checked the laptops regularly
as the battery drained
the razer laptop died at around 2 hours
and 40 minutes this is absolutely
terrible and made worse because razer
actually drops the performance of the
laptop a ton when on battery the slim 7
pro x died at around the 3 hour and 40
minute mark after 4 hours the g14 had 30
left and the macbook pro 14 was just
laughing at the carnage around it with a
whopping 70 left what's even more
embarrassing for the pc laptops is that
the macbook pros display was by far the
brightest when turndown 3 notches note
you'll get longer battery runtimes if
you turn down the display's brightness
further here's the webcam of the asus
g14 in the best possible lighting
conditions here's the webcam of the yoga
slim7 pro x in excellent lighting
conditions and by the way it's the only
one where i can hear the fan going while
i'm doing this test
now here's the webcam of the race of
late 14 in the best possible lighting
conditions now here's the macbook pro
14's webcam in the best possible
lighting conditions let's talk about
pricing as i wrap and go through who
should buy each of these laptops the
macbook pro 14 i feel is the best laptop
of the four so long as you aren't
planning to do aaa gaming are okay with
using mac os and can afford it for the
models i recommend with the m1 pro chip
it can regularly be had on sale for
1800-2250
dollars which for the quality of machine
you are getting i think is fair
since a lot of programmers watch this
channel as someone who has been a
professional programmer for 13 years the
macbook pro 14 is the dream programming
laptop that's the one you should buy
same goes for video editors by the way
if you are a aaa gamer the asus g14 is
the one i'd get it starts at about one
and a half thousand us dollars for the
radeon 6700 model with 16 gig of ram and
it goes up to about two and a half
thousand dollars for the 6800 model with
32 gig of ram
i think the 1500 model offers tremendous
value
even though its graphics and performance
are worse than the blade 14 because of
its better keyboard and screen i
actually found the g14 a more enjoyable
gaming experience than having the extra
frames on the blade 14. speaking of the
blade 14 it's a niche device if you're
mainly going to have it plugged into an
external monitor keyboard and mouse and
you want a gorgeous looking very
powerful laptop then it could be the one
for you using it like this will negate
some of its downsides that so long as
you can of course afford it my coffee
costs 2 600 us dollars which is
expensive there is a cheaper two
thousand dollar model but you are
dropping to a full hd screen and an rtx
3060. the higher end razer model at 3
500 is disgraceful it only comes with 16
gig of ram which you can't upgrade given
the 16 gig of ram limit on the blade 14
i really think you should only consider
it if you are just gaming for other high
performance tasks like video editing the
components in this laptop would be
better paired with 32 gig of ram when it
comes to the slim7 pro x i think the
intel version which starts at 1 700 us
dollars is too expensive if you can save
the extra dollars you should get the
macbook pro 14 it's a much better
machine the only reason to choose the
pro x over it is if you're gaming and
you want that nvidia 3050 or absolutely
don't want mac os but even then the asus
g14 i think is a better choice if you
can handle the slightly decreased
portability now the amd version of the
pro x on the other hand is more recently
priced at one thousand five hundred
dollars
at the end of this video my team and i
were left saying we wish we had that
model if that runs quieter than the
intel one as amd processors tend to i
can see it being a viable choice
particularly for programmers who can't
afford or don't want a macbook pro 14.
even then though you should still
consider the g14 or if you want
something more portable i'd honestly
take a look at lenovo's own slim7 pro
from last year also known as the yoga
14s it still has a powerful cpu and i
found it ran noticeably cooler and
quieter at least in the intel version of
the pro x the slim 7 pro is also cheaper
its major downsides versus the pro x is
that its keyboard isn't quite as
comfortable and its graphics aren't as
good before i go i do want to say this
if i was buying a portable powerful
premium windows laptop i personally
would strongly consider the legion slim
7. in fact that's what i own
yes it's a 15 inch laptop but it's a
pretty portable one and honestly it's
more comfortable to use than these other
windows laptops that's because it runs
cooler to the touch and quieter plus it
still comes with a powerful amd
processor inside as well as an nvidia
rtx 3060 it has a very comfortable
keyboard good trackpad and an excellent
gorgeous 4k screen and check out the
pricing 2 000 us dollars for a model
with 32 gig of ram and 2 terabytes of
ssd storage well that's all for today
folks if you like this video you know
what to do smash that like button and
get subscribed not only does it show
your appreciation for the insane amount
of effort that goes into making these
but as i always say it makes my mother
very proud till next time go do
something awesome with your day and i
will catch you later
